# BuildingAStrongCubScoutPack
I am starting this repo as a place to store versions of documents and plans to help other packs grow.  This is meant to be a collaborative space to teach others and learn from others. Over time the truths about what are making the larger packs more successful should start to become obvious.  In the end we should end up with a blueprint of how to build out and manage a super sized pack of between 80 and 100 Scouts.
The BSA has been working the same formula with few changes since it's inception.  Any organization that doesn't challenge itself to change and modernize on a regular basis is doomed to fail.  This lack of meaningful change is the reason why both the Girl Scouts and Boy Scouts are expreiencing dramatic membership drop offs.
I don't think that Pack 3402 is unique or that our idea's are novel, new or even noteworthy some times.  A lot of this will seem like common sense when people read it.  Common sense isn't always common.  I regularly read articles and stories about how to do Technical things and go well DUH of course you do that.  In reality had I not read it I may not have realized what I was doing that made me successful.  So What I hope will happen is that people will be inspired to take the idea's here, try them and then provide feedback on what worked well for them and how they can make it better.
The current BSA Standard is Dens of 8-10 boys.  A super sized pack doubles that size.  Pack 3402 has has between 60 and 100 scouts for several years now.  Our Den's range from 15-25 scouts. We added 31 new scouts in 2017 alone.  Great Trails Council would advise us to split the larger Den's.  To date we have ignored this advice and it seems to be working well for us.
As Comittee Chair it's in my best interest to identify why we continue to grow year over year so that we can at the least maintain our size.  Our Cubmaster, Assistant Cubmaster and I are currently worried about getting crushed under our size.  Many of our committee members and other leaders share the concernt.  However, as we have discussed our options like spliting up the Pack or the Den's the problem of how to do it without loosing scouts is always our road block.  So for now we are blazing new trails and methods to keep pack strong and growing.

# The problems with the BSA's definition of a "normal" den/pack size
1.  The idea of what den and pack size is ideal from a time when we had less distractions.  When I was my sons age there were only a few options of things to do besides scouting.  Video games were just dots on a screen.  Robots were the things of SciFi and not something we could build and fit with.  You had only a couple of sports in most of america to choose from and soccer, much to my fathers disappointment, was not normally one of them let alone Lacross or Hockey.  All of these things are now common and Scouting needs to change with those times.
2.  Before I begin this topic understand that this is not meant to say everyone is one of these two types of people.  The point is that groups that are struggling often have a leader or leasers that fall into the traps defined below.  I hope that we can help to document how the successful leaders are avoiding them.  Scouting's leadership is  hero/martyr basised.  What do I mean?  A lot of the leaders I see fall into one of two main traps:
  a) They don't give people enough feedback and information for them to be successful on their own and the leader needs to fly  in and save the day.  Thus a Hero.
  b) They don't delegate enough becuase they don't think anyone else can do things as well as they can do or will do what needs to get done their way.  They get themselves into trouble and end up killing themselves, their marriage, and the pack.
  Both personality types are distructive to both the learders and the people working with them.  
